# 9A Protyping Day and Exercise

## Class 9A / Tuesday

### Figma Prototyping
Today you will follow me along as we learn how to create prototypes in Figma. The good news is that even if your "Pro/Student" account wasn't
approved you, you can still follow along.

#### Steps to Follow:

1. Open Figma https://www.figma.com/
2. Sign in with you credentials 
> (likely using the signin with Google and your g.rit.edu account)
(You don’t need the Student/Pro version to follow along today!)
3. Follow along with what we do in class. I will post a guide AFTER class; but I don't want people getting distracted by it so this will be posted around 4:00 pm on 2/21/2025.

**RULES for todays Prototyping demo**
- Don’t get ahead of me! 
  - It may seem painfully slow but if you race ahead it will cause problems in subsequent steps
- IF STUCK – raise hand immediately. If you fall two steps behind it may be impossible for me to help. SO RAISE hand immediately.
- LOOK at  ME / Projector when asked to do so!  I expect you to not have your heads buried in the screens when I am giving steps. Many Figma settings are hard to find; if you just listen or get distracted you will miss important things.
- The actual prototype we build will take an hour; but when you do it a second time it can take 5 mintues! SO please be patient and stay with me today.

#### You Do (what to do after class)

#### Ehance the prototype we made
- Ensure your prototype has all the features we did in class; and afterwards do the following:
- ADD another interaction to the prototype. For example, add another page.  In class we only made 2 of the 3 links in the footer navigation work. Go ahead and add another page to your prototype. It is up to you what you want to put on this page; but try to do a nice job and add more then just a single element on your newly added page. You will be graded based on effort here; there aren't strict guidelines but I want to see that you added a nice looking additional page to your prototype that is more then just a signle element on the page.
- Make it a bit more "High Fidelity" - we talked last week about wireframes VS high fidelity mockups. In class the prototype we build maybe had a color or two but was still pretty "Low fidelity". Enhance your prototype desgin by adding some brand colors; images; or more. Once again not strict guidelines here but I want to see some effort was made to enhance your prototype overall design / look and feel beyond the one I made in class. This shouldn't take hours; but should probably take more then a minute or two. The colors and look and feel should feel consistent across all the pages of your App prototype

  #### Alternative option:
  - If you want to be really creative you may develop a new prototype from scratch and not based of what we did in class; however at minium  iwould like to see a prototype with at least 3 interactions (3 pages), have scrolling enabled in an element, and be a bit more polished then a wire frame (maybe not High fidelity but medium fidelity.

  #### TURN in your Prototype
  - Submit the Link you created in the mycourses dropbox I will open later tonight. BE SURE to use the Figma Share button in the top right and be sure anyone can view the project. I'd strongly suggest testing the link with a google incognito window to be sure others can open the link. In the comments area of the submission you should submit:
  1. The Link to your design/prototype in figma (desribed above)
  2. A short couple sentence reflection covering what want well; how you like figma, and challenges you foresee in the next phase of the class when we build a prototype base don class proposals



## Class 9B / Thursday
- Coming Soon.

